<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="UTF-8" />
  <title>Unveiling the Colonial Veil: Deconstructing the Notions of the Middle East</title>
</head>
<body>
  <h1>Unveiling the Colonial Veil: Deconstructing the Notions of the Middle East</h1>
  <h3>By Nisa Yilmaz</h3>

  <p>Introduction
G. Etzel Pearcy boldly referred to the "Middle East" as an indivisible entity, an indefinable region in 1964 (Pearcy, 1964, p.1-12). After sixty years today, the expression that is contaminated with biases and ambitions of imperial understanding throughout history is still being used in literature, politics, media, and daily life like it is an objective description. Who knows where is the  "Middle East"? Who, exactly, determines the "Middle" in the  "Middle East"? It is known what the usage of this term evokes in people's minds; exoticism, instability, and “the other”, but no one knows the borders. In addition, the lack of distinct borders contributes to this problem, allowing for subjective implementation and modification. The term's confusion extends beyond its physical location into the complicated sociopolitical meanings created through centuries of colonization and power conflicts. The term is criticized for more than simply its technicalities; it is a powerful sign of ongoing inequalities in international relations, strengthening structures of power and prolonging the marginalization of the nations and people. As we negotiate modern political scenery, it is fundamental to question and oppose such colonial remains, striving for equal and careful frameworks that recognize the complex nature of our interrelated world. It is a fact that geographical areas also have been formed by humans and fashioned around certain political, cultural, and economic lines by the global hierarchy. Questioning the term given to an ambiguous region we see rather than being a location, the name given to the area as we know it today is a political concept or identity that was formed by Western influence in the wake of the Ottoman Empire's collapse in the early 20th century. Not a few books utilize “Middle East " as all or a part of the title. Since 1947 the ‘Middle East Journal’ has regularly chronicled problems and happenings of the area. Yet nonstandard boundary delimitation exists by which a Middle East region can be precisely located geographically (Pearcy, 1964, p.1). The term's introduction and the idea that this area was solely home to unfortunate incidents, issues, and "third world" nations developed in an uninterrupted direction. Regarding borders, on the other hand, the term preserved its ambiguity and flexibility based on the degree to which the "developed" Western nations were required to intervene in the region to not only prevent "unpleasant" events from occurring but also to ensure that the "unpleasantness" persisted over time so they could continue their power battles. Before delving into the multifaceted nature of the term, it's important to think about whether we should be asking, "Where is the 'Middle East'?" Alternatively, "What is the "Middle East"? This region, with its vague borders and fluid historical meanings, is often described in reference to the West, serving as its geographical and cultural polar opposite. However, the phrase remains unreliable, leading us to doubt its value and accuracy in characterizing the wide variety of nations and cultures it embraces. In this article, we are going to examine the historical origins, geopolitical consequences, and cultural impacts of the phrase "Middle East" in order to clarify its criticism. By questioning the underlying assumptions and biases firmly established in this name, we aim to shed a spotlight on the intricate details of the region and challenge the oversimplified classifications that often follow its categorization. Through a careful evaluation of its adoption and implications, we hope to build greater awareness of the region and inspire debate on the language used to discuss it. Furthermore, this paper will attempt to provide alternative frameworks for understanding the area that is better suited to its different realities. By connecting with supporting opinions from inside and outside the region and relying on ideas from critical scholarship, we hope to provide more realistic and appropriate terminology that better reflects the region. Ultimately, we desire to create a deeper understanding and respect for the region's intricacies while moving away from the simplistic and damaging cliches associated with the name "Middle East."</p>

  <p>Imposition of an Oriental Framework: The idea of Orientalism goes back to ancient times, and since then the world civilization divided into the West and East of the West. The term  "Orient " has been used by Europeans to define a wide range of areas of the East from Turkey to China, including Arabic-speaking countries. The terminology and definitions used to designate these areas changed or were given new names by Western nations over time, such as  "Near East ",  "Far East ", and finally “Middle East”. However, research on regional definitions demonstrates that we cannot precisely define any of these concepts. We can see the foundational Western perspective in all of these expressions. That is why we can not understand the expression in a contemporary sense without considering the colonizing idea of history. Nearly all political explanations were relevant to the "Middle East," and the base of a large portion of the boundaries that politics changes is based on the autonomy and beginning of the establishment of spheres shaped by the British, French, Russians, and Germans in this region at the end of the nineteenth and first half of the twentieth centuries (Ehlers, 1990, p.10). The historical meaning of what Near East meant before, became  "Middle East " with the shifts in politics after the secret agreement of Skyes-Picot, and the political definition made by Winston Churchill in the early 20th century was determining the context of the term as a region from Bosporus to the western borders of India (Ozalp, 2011, p. 9). The term during the Second World War has become more popular with the Middle East Command -British army forces established in Egypt at the time of the Second World War- covering the area, especially of the British domain from Malta to Iran and Syria, from there to Ethiopia (Davison, 1963, p. 19). With the change of the setting, while previous terminology began to lose its value, 'Middle East' remained in our language, cementing its roots in the political definition of the area, and even the countries of the region accepted the term. Persistent use of the phrase forces an Oriental framework upon a historically rich and diverse region. As a result, this place is seen through a lens that has been affected by what is rightfully referred to as a form of intellectual colonization and is deeply rooted in our language due to its frequent use and adoption. For generations, the term "East," which originates from long ago, has been used to characterize the rest of the world outside of Europe in terms of culture rather than as a geographical area that represents the opposite world. Maintaining a territorial hierarchy by definition, which not only questions the existence of a mutual "Middle West," but also plays an essential part in preserving power relations and conflicts of interest. This term's common usage to refer to a wide geographic region including South Asia and North Africa has been criticized for its Eurocentric foundations and the prejudices it imposes on the diverse range of identities, histories, and cultures that fall under. Keddie argues that the “Middle East” is a somewhat artificial nineteenth-century abstraction (Keddie, 1973, p. 257); it evolves between the terms “Near East” and “Far East”, which are also defining the regions from the Western perspective. Nineteenth-century Europeans thought more in terms of the “Near East”, which might include the Balkans and usually excluded Iran and Afghanistan than they did in terms of what currently the expression of the region represents, a term which to some meant, logically enough, the area between the “Near East”, as defined above, and the “Far East”. What likely maintains the weird word (what East is Morocco meant to be in the middle of?) alive today is the cumbersomeness of any other scientific designation thought of thus far (Keddie, 1973, p. 267).  Still, the region's complexity makes it impossible to put it into clear categories. Any attempt to define it in terms of geography, culture, or history would fail since the only static about the term is the constantly shifting political and strategic objectives of the imperial powers. Despite being tainted by Western ideology from the start and since its inception, the continued usage of this expression raises serious concerns and requires investigation into the terminological chaos. As we see from history to the present, the term has evolved over time to become what it is now. The problem when such a term is used, it can never be called a region, because no one can pinpoint its exact boundaries. Nobody knows where it begins, and where it ends. Still, the area has gained recognition as a distinct and legitimate location. It is true that discussions on the  "Middle East" in both social and political discourses are so widespread that we rarely ever examine their socially created roots and implications. The term was first coined by American naval historian Alfred Mahan in his article titled ‘The Persian Gulf and International Relations’ published in the September 1902 issue of National Review: 'The Middle East, if I may adopt a term which I have not seen, will someday have its Malta, as well as its Gibraltar..'  Mahan was probably correct in saying he had not seen the term (Koppes, 1976, p. 95).  Later on, in 1916, the Sykes-Picot Agreement drawn up by the British and French is a clear indication of how the  "Middle East " can be viewed as an ‘invention’. With this secret agreement, the British and French divided Ottoman territories into spheres of their influence and interests. The geographical setting of the "Near East" and "Far East" shifted, leading to a decreasing trend in their common usage. Particularly in light of European colonizing ambitions in the region, it is developed to establish a more unique character. The term's formation and identification with a particular group of territories was made simpler by the arbitrary borders that were drawn in the years following World War I. It is a geographical categorization that is additionally an outcome of imperial and geopolitical agendas. The argument that the persistent utilization of such terminology carries a trace of intellectual colonization and creates perceptions rooted in a Eurocentric perspective is strengthened through the historical evolution of these phrases. Since then, the term's existence and adoption have changed how people view it internationally as well as how politics, society, identity, and daily life are shaped in the region. One should also remember that the arbitrary borders were imposed upon the people of the region and that they were not consulted in the creation of the Sykes-Picot Agreement. The agreement can be understood as a European attempt to create a new establishment, disregarding the existing identity of the region, linking to Said’s notion of Orientalism as the West ‘restructuring’ the ‘Orient’ to complement their interests (Syed, 2021, p. 2). As we look into this historical context reveals the term's flexible nature, a tool used not just for labeling a place but also to advance the goals of those competing for control over the territories it included.  The outcomes of the Sykes-Picot Agreement, as well as the later adoption of the term "Middle East," have had significant repercussions for the region's population. The artificial establishment of borders, typically by colonial powers, ignored existing cultural, ethnic, and traditional ties, fragmenting and destabilizing communities. This forced geopolitical framework has sustained a history of conflict and division, as states contend with colonial legacies and fight to reclaim sovereignty. In addition, the labeling of the region as the "Middle East" has contributed to a biased impression of its residents on a worldwide scale. Consequently, the region's political and cultural image has suffered, with its people overlooked and misrepresented in international discourse. The expression of the region is frequently seen in negative and particularistic perspectives, similar to how the West views the Orient, such as through the lens of terrorism and instability. In addition to influencing material behaviors and political decisions, these artificial and shallow geographic conceptions have had an effect on many people's impressions of the region. The term's historical journey began with the understanding of colonialism in the 19th century and continued with political repercussions and interventions in the region by the USA after the events of 9/11. The US was able to continue and justify its actions in the region by using the perception of the "others" as a danger on a geographic scale. In the face of these historical injustices and continuing challenges, the people of the region have been working to regain their voice and claim their own stories. Efforts to oppose external influence and establish sovereignty have taken many forms, including grassroots protests and diplomatic actions. Still, the path to genuine self-determination remains full of challenges, as geopolitical conflict and special interests continue to dictate the region's destiny. The Sykes-Picot Agreement and the renaming of the region as the "Middle East" serve as clear reminders of colonialism and imperialism's continuing legacies. By facing these legacies and pushing for a more inclusive and respectful approach to the region's variation, we can start to challenge established power dynamics and lead the way for an equal and fair future for all who call the region home. The 2003 invasion of Iraq by the United States and its allies started an extended struggle that resulted in immense destruction, loss of life, and regional destabilization. Similarly, actions taken in Libya and Syria have worsened existing conflicts, resulting in prolonged civil wars and catastrophes affecting humanity. Support for oppressive governments in states such as Egypt has encouraged human rights violations and persecution of opinions, weakening the desire of the people for democracy, freedom of speech, and equality. Western aid to tyrants and authoritarian regimes in the region, which is driven by strategic interests, has suppressed democratic movements and challenged people's desire for self-determination in many other ways. The existing Israeli oppression of Palestinian people is a clear example of how Western engagement contributes to regional tensions. Mainly US-led military support for Israel is one of the prior reasons why the occupation and exploitation of rights continue until this day. The support of the West made it impossible to achieve a just defense and resolution for the people of the region; it resulted the ongoing violence and despair for too many Palestinians. In addition to that, the desire to exploit natural resources in the region like oil has inevitably resulted in both environmental and economic damage. The firms operating in the area, frequently with the support of Western authorities, put profit over the security and welfare of local populations, resulting in ecological damage, displacement of people from their homes, and financial vulnerability. These examples show how foreign intervention is still hindering the region's progress toward autonomy, sustaining a cycle of dependence and conflict. Numerous works studied the criticism of the power relationships involved in the representation of the region. However, the process by which the area becomes a recognized geographical location has received little research, mostly we remain ignorant about the topic. The ‘Middle East’ is still an expression we use, study, and preserve the meaning of the region until today which came from the idea that European countries perceived the region as a geopolitical entity to which they were entitled allowing them to exercise influence and "restructure" it, as well as being unable to flourish freely. Once more, the widespread Orientalist view that the "Orient" was backward and in need of "Occidental" assistance to modernize and civilize its people served as a major justification for this. The region has never existed in a vacuum, with international trade routes, struggles from external powers to control the region and its resources, and cultural and scientific exchange dating back centuries (Schwedler, 2013, p. 1); however, Orientalist notions represented in the media, politics, academia, literature helps the term continue to serve as a basis for thinking and rationalizing Western interference in the region to this day. 
.</p>

  <p>Flexibility of Definitions: Unlike geographical terms rooted in objective criteria, the "Middle East" lacks a fixed and universally agreed-upon definition. Instead, its contours shift according to the whims of imperial powers and the ever-evolving geopolitical landscape, meaning of it changes according to the user and the period which is used. Boundaries of the region are determined with very different forms because of different interests, criteria, and scientific disciplines (Ozalp, 2011, p. 5-8). Between the terms Near East (eastern Mediterranean countries, Balkans close to Europe) and the Far East(China, Korea, Japan, and other East Asian countries) which are slightly closer to a definition, “Middle East” preserved its uncertainty from the beginning. At the time, it was classified as the area between the Arabian Peninsula, Mesopotamia, and the Persian and Central Asian territories. The phrase "Near East" has fallen out of popularity, however, it is often used interchangeably with the new expression. The "Middle East" has expanded westward, enveloping the Eastern Mediterranean and even North Africa, often at the expense of its Eastern ends in Central Asia (Scharnweber, 2016, p. 2). Furthermore, many scholars have various definitions and opinions about the region. Hudson divides the region into three distinct areas: the Arab East (Mashreq), North Africa (Maghreb), and the Gulf Region (Khaalej) (Hudson, 1976). Bassam Tibi, another prominent expert on the region, classifies it according to three sub-categories, however, he considers the countries in this sub-system as the core and edge countries (Tibi, 1989). Steinbach in their work in 1979 Politiches Lexion Nahost defines the region from Morocco to Pakistan (Steinbach, 1979). National Geographic's political map of the Middle East, which appears to follow the original British use of the word, excludes North Africa and only depicts a sliver of Egypt, but extends to the East to cover Afghanistan, Pakistan, and the Central Asian Republics. On the other hand, Human Rights Watch, the International Crisis Group, and the Council on Foreign Relations exclude Turkey, Pakistan, and Afghanistan from their definitions of the Middle East, but include the Arab countries of North Africa in their programs (Scharnweber, 2016 p. 2-5).  The diverse range of terminology and definitions shows that no one version is better than the others, rather it presents the fluidity of the term. The flexibility and uncertainty can be seen by its various definitions and applications in different settings. From these examples, whether specific countries are included or excluded from the region is determined by the point of view and intention of the institution that defines it; therefore continuing usage of this expression will always be a potential harm for the countries considered to be in the area.The region can be interpreted in various ways and what countries form the area is often a topic of debate, with many scholars opting to refer to the region as ‘West Asia’ (Syed, 2021, p. 1). The term's flexibility makes it possible for it to alter and adapt to the goals and interests of those who use it, making any attempt to define its exact boundaries pointless. Does it make sense to cluster countries as diverse historically and culturally as, for example, Iran, Turkey, Somalia, Yemen, and Morocco under the single category of Middle East? Yet the category of the region does make considerable sense given the shared historical experiences of the spread of Islam, the reach of the Ottoman Empire, and the experiences of European colonialism (Schwedler, 2013, p. 3). </p>

</p>Contemporary Usage: In the contemporary era, the term "Middle East" is used so frequently in the dialogue that its historical baggage and associated biases are mostly ignored. Institutions, the media, and international organizations also use the term which contributes to the perpetuation of a colonial narrative. It raises a critical question: How many people in these circles understand what the term means, and more crucially, why it is problematic in the first place? We should pause for a second and question what we mean when we say ‘Middle East’. Middle of what or where? What are the borders of this region?  There is no way to draw concrete borders to an abstract sphere that intersects three continents: Africa, Asia, and Europe (Al-Aqeedi, 2023). Delving further into this historical context reveals the term's elasticity as a tool used not just for labeling a place but also to advance the goals of those seeking control over the territories it included. Today, even the societies in the countries of the region use the term as if it is a definite place or territory on the map. However, this is not the case. The “Middle East” is an expression that is defined differently by different agencies and countries as we discussed before. Whitaker confesses that he does not know for certain where the Middle East is, even though he has been writing about it in the Guardian for more than four years, and he is fairly sure that he has been there (Whitaker, 2004). We already claimed that the term is not geographical, but mainly political from a Western, better to say from a Eurocentric perspective and we can not understand the meaning of it without looking from there; because, when it is only looked at from Europe then the East becomes Near, Middle, or Far (Ozalp, 2011, p. 7).  However, we do keep using the so-called  "Middle East" in any context and everyday discourse. It is a paradoxical fact that we hear this term even in the forums, organizations, and studies that are talking about de-colonialism but keep maintaining the colonial term. What was used to describe the region known during the 19th and 20th centuries, as well as in the early 21st century, is dictated by the great powers. The shift from bipolar to unipolar world order, following the end of the Cold War and the USA's emergence as the sole superpower in global politics, resulted in a reinterpretation of the region from an American perspective and the justification of power maneuvers in the region. Contemporary understanding of the term has changed greatly after the attacks in the USA on September 11, 2001. Following the events, America pulled up its sleeves and started to attempt to restore democracy in the region. Strategists from the USA and government administrations started to develop their ideas on bringing democracy to the  "Greater Middle East ", also opening a new page on the terminology. In this framework, beginning in late 2003, President Bush began to express his initiative known as "the Greater Middle East Initiative" (GMEI) at every chance. The concept was to seek to develop democracies across the Islamic world (Schoch, 2005, p. 30-48). The Arab world and the European Union both harshly opposed the Greater Middle East Project following its publication. However, in terms of reaction and influence, Europe presented its perspective and enabled the phrase to be modified, leaving Arab countries and other countries in the region with no choice but to embrace it. On March 22, 2004, the EU announced its first proposal under the heading "the Strategic Partnership of the European Union with the Mediterranean and the Middle East" as an alternative to the “Greater Middle East Project”. In this context, the concept of the Greater Middle East Initiative (GMEI) was accepted with its new shape, the Broader Middle East Initiative (BMEI), following lengthy talks and interviews during the G-8 Summit held at the Sea Island on June 9, 2004. (Ozalp, 2011, p. 13-15). The recent history shows us clearly how the colonial idea is still functioning and planting its roots even deeper. The division of the world into distinct regions based on human and geographical characteristics is widely regarded as a strategy to organize and comprehend the world. The concept of the "Middle East," has been created by historical, economic, and political discourses. What is different about it is unique in that negative discourses about it are widely accepted (Culcasi, 2010, p. 594). But why? Stereotypes created for the ambiguous region harshly continue still today. Arabs, Muslims, and others who live in the region are referred to as "Middle Eastern," which instantly makes it acceptable to observe them from the other side of the world with the ignorance inherited from the Western idea. For centuries, Western geopolitical ambitions in the area have been justified by the perception of its inferiority and backwardness. Today, the Othering of the “Middle East” has legitimized US foreign policies in the region (Culcasi, 2010, p. 594). When discussing contemporary uses and meanings of the phrase, we cannot overlook the role of media. The media's false portrayal of Arabs has become embedded in American culture, as well as in other Western countries, hiding under the cover of resolving the “Middle East conflict” (Shaheen, 1985, p.160-175). The “Middle East conflict” has been used so often in the media and political discourse, that it has become a phrase that represents the region. What is the conflict? Walter Lippmann stated that “The subtlest and most pervasive of all influences, are those that create and maintain the repertory of stereotypes. We are told about the world before we see it. We imagine most things before we experience them. And those perceptions govern deeply the whole process of perception..” (Lippmann, 1922, p. 59-70). The “Otherness” created under the label of “Middle East”, “Orient”, or “Greater Middle East”, whichever you call it, legitimized any unrighteous action in the region, stereotypes engraved in people’s minds and kept their ignorance with oversimplifying the idea of the phrase. Washington-based Middle East Journal represented the great idea under the label by using descriptions such as "barbaric and cruel," treacherous," "warlike," "rich," and "mistreaters of women” for people of the region (Shaheen, 1985, p. 162). The expression dehumanizes people from the region and ignores their culture, identity, and value as equal human beings. Why label Palestinians and Lebanese terrorists? Are they not repelling the soldiers of an illegal occupying force? (Shaheen, 1985, p. 168). Abu Hassan, A Shiite Amal party leader, asked, "Who are the terrorists, [we] or the Israelis? Who has gone into whose country and destroyed whose homes?" (Nordland, 1985, p. 35). The usage of the phrase "Middle East" to identify the diverse culture and legacy of the people is insulting towards them if we comprehend its true meaning. That is why opposing the phrase 'Middle East' is crucial and necessary. A suggestion was made by Nehru, former prime minister of India, to call the region ‘West Asia’, which is a considerably more accurate term and a geographical description. The Middle East Is a Vague Concept published in the New York Times in 1957 argued the ambiguity of the term and quoted the suggestion from Nehru to call it with a more accurate term; “From where he sits the area is not ‘Middle East’ at all, but Asian, and he wishes the Western world would start calling it West Asia. Mr Nehru argues that the Middle East is an odious term because it suggests that the West is egocentrically trying to order world geography in terms of its own.” (Times, 1957). </p>

</p>Conclusion: Finally, based on the research and discussions, we may conclude with the outcome that Orientalism is a foundation and justification for those who want to pursue their control over the vague region, it is an excuse to show in the international arena that there is a reason for a ‘conflict’ and the label for it is so-called “Middle East”. Investigating the definition of the phrase and what it means reveals that it is a colonial construct founded on Western hegemony and Orientalist ideologies. “The West used knowledge and power tropes to create the Orient as the ultimate ‘other’ of the Occident” (Burney, 2012, p. 24). Orientalism can be discussed and analyzed as the corporate institution for dealing with the Orient, dealing with it by making statements about it, authorizing views of it, describing it, teaching it settling it, and ruling over it: in short, Orientalism as a Western style for dominating restructuring, and having authority over the Orient (Said, 1978, p. 3). Since past events, external forces have used this expression as a means of power to dominate and reconstruct the region. From its creation in the late 19th century to its contemporary function, the "Middle East" has been defined, redefined, and manipulated to serve the geopolitical interests of those in power. The presence of the West in the region from the early 20th century helped to establish a power hierarchy in the region, supported by Orientalist attitudes, presenting the West to be superior. This idea of Western superiority and the power hierarchy it has created in international politics is what allows Western states to intervene in the region today (Syed, 2021, p. 3-4). The term's colonial heritage can be seen in its elastic, unclear, and unknown limits, which were determined by imperialist desires rather than objective regional criteria. It has long been used to homogenize a wide geographic area that possesses rich diversity, culture, tradition, and history, reducing it to a simplified and frequently negative stereotype established by Western media and discourse. Furthermore, the "Middle East" label has contributed to the legitimacy of interventionist actions, military interventions, and neocolonial practices in the name of "civilizing" or "democratizing" the region. Critics have been calling for a suggestion that this term should be replaced with a more realistic and less Eurocentric name like "West Asia." Such an alteration in the vocabulary would not only reflect the region's true geographical location but would also call to question the power dynamics deeply embedded in the term's colonial context. In terms of geography, West Asia is an appropriate representation of what is considered the “Middle East”, which could extend from Egypt to India or North Africa to Central Asia. The confusion must end, and we must look at the region without bias. The word 'West Asia' is far more objective, whereby the region is described objectively (Al-Aqeedi, 2023). In conclusion, the term “Middle East” serves as a solid reminder of the continuing legacy of imperialism and the ideology of Orientalism in shaping global perspectives, perceptions, and power dynamics. Its still-going usage and acception in the language preserves stereotypes that do not reflect reality, reinforces Western dominance in the region, and undermines the autonomy of the diversity of people inhabiting the region. Moving forward, it is critical to examine and confront the colonial narratives rooted in this phrase, as well as work towards a more just and inclusive understanding of West Asia and its many details.</p>

</p>References 

Al-Aqeedi, W. (2023, May 18). Objection to the term “Middle East” - Mathqaf. https://mathqaf.com/2020/12/01/objection-to-the-term-middle

Burney, S. (2012). “Orientalism: The Making of the Other.” Counterpoints, vol. 417, pp. 23–39. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/42981698

Culcasi, Karen, Constructing and Naturalizing the Middle East, Geographical Review, Vol. 100, No. 4 (October 2010), pp. 583-597 American Geographical Society http://www.jstor.org/stable/2574117

Davison, Roderic H. 1963. “Where is the Middle East?” In the Modern Middle East, edited by Richard H. Nolte, pp. 13-30, New York: Atherton,  Council on Foreign Relations Stable,: https://www.jstor.org/stable/20029452

Ehlers, Eckart. 1990. Der Islamische Orient Grundlagen zur Länderkunde eines Kulturraums. Köln: Isl. Wiss. Akad

Keddie, Nikki R, International Journal of Middle East Studies, Jul., 1973, Vol. 4, No. 3 (Jul., 1973), pp. 255-271,Cambridge University Press Stable URL: https://www.jstor.org/stable/162159

Koppes, 1976, Middle Eastern Studies, Jan. 1976, Vol. 12, No. 1 (Jan. 1976), pp. 95-98, Taylor & Francis, Ltd.,  https://www.jstor.org/stable/4282584

Lippmann, Walter, Public Opinion (New York: Macmillan, 1922), pp. 59-70 

Mahan, Alfred Thayer, 1902,  'The Persian Gulf and International Relations', National Review, XL (September 1902)

Nordland, Rod "Israel's Troubled Exit," Newsweek, 18 Mar. 1985, p. 35

Ozalp, Osman. (2011). Where is the Middle East? The Definition and Classification Problem of the Middle East as a Regional Subsystem in International Relations. Turkish Journal of Politics. 2. 5-22. 


Pearcy, G. E. 1964. The Middle East - An Indefinable Region,  Washington Department of State Publication 7684, Near and Middle East Series 72

Said, Edward, Orientalism, 1978, p.3, file:///C:/Users/nisa/Downloads/Said%20Orientalism.pdf

Shaheen, Jack G., The Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, Vol. 482, Changing Patterns of Power in the Middle East (Nov., 1985), pp. 160-175 (16 pages)
https://www.jstor.org/stable/1046388


Scharnweber, Greta, 2016, Middle East Policy Council Teaching the Middle East: A Resource Guide for American Educators, p. 2-7

Schwedler, Jillian, 2013, Understanding the Contemporary Middle East, 2013, Fourth Edition, Lynne Rienner Publishers

Schoch, Bruno, 2005,. “Washington’s “Greater Middle East Initiative” - eine ernst zu nehmende Vision”, In Herausforderung Mittelost: Übernimmt sich der Westen?, Hans-Georg Ehrhardt, Margret Johannsen, 30-48. Baden-Baden: Nomos

Syed, Arwa, 2021, The Middle East: An Orientalist Creation, FEB 25 2021, E-International Relations, https://www.e-ir.info/2021/02/25/the-middle-east-an-orientalist-creation/

Times, N. Y. (1957, January 6). THE MIDDLE EAST IS VAGUE CONCEPT; Area Is Imprecisely Defined Even Among the Highest U.S. Policy Officers The Arab World The Near East Suggestion by Nehru. The New York Times.


Whitaker, B. 2004. From Turkey to Tibet. Guardian [London], 23 February, www.guardian.co.uk /world/2004/feb/23/worlddispatch.brianwhitaker</p>

</body>
</html>


